#### Stable Ischemic Heart Disease

> Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) is the leading etiology of ischemic heart disease, and is typically the result of atherosclerotic plaque in the epicardial vessels. The process of atherosclerosis begins early in life, with fatty streaks present in many people in their teenage years or early twenties. Thes plaques grow over decades and start to become pathologic in a person's fifth decade of life and beyond. The atherosclerotic plaques producing episodes of angina in patients with SIHD are not ones that rupture and produce rapid flow limiting thrombus as in the setting of an ACS. In SIHD, the atherosclerotic plaques are more stable, have a reduced lipid core, and a firmer calcified covering. Since their geometry does not typically change acutely, they provide a relatively fixed decrease in myocardial oxygen supply.

> *Coronoary Vasospasm* and *Prinzmetal's Angina*

+  **Guideline Directed Medication Therapy**
   -  **Antiplatelet Therapy**
      *  Low-dose Aspirin (aka Baby Aspirin aka Aspirin 81mg) is preferred over Aspirin 325mg. Because higher does of Aspirin can cause significant impairment of endothelial secretion of prostacyclin, which is a natural vasodilator.
      *  Pharmacodynamic aspirin nonresponsiveness may occur because of changes to the COX-1 enzyme, such as changes to the enzyme structure, or the transient inaccessibility of the enzyme due to the blockade of the active site. Of particular concern is the potential for NSAID drug therapy to inhibit the effect of aspirin on the COX-1 enzyme. Naproxen and Ibuprofen have shown to interfere with aspirin's antiplatelet effect when co-administered due to competition for access to the site of action in the COX-1 enzyme. Timing of coadministration appears to be an important factor in the extent of competition. The effect of aspirin on platelet aggregation is impaired when Ibuprofen is given 2 hours before aspirin, but when aspirin is given first there is no effect on the ability of aspirin to inhibit platelet aggregation.
      *  In patients unable to take aspirin due to allergy or intolerance, clopidogrel represents a suitable alternative antiplatelet agent to prevent MI and death in patients with CAD.
   -  **ACE-Inhibitors**
      *  In the setting of atherosclerotic disease and SIHD, ACE inhibitors:
         -  have demononstrated the ability to stabilize coronary plaque, 
         -  provide restoration or improvement in endothelial function, 
         -  inhibition of vascular smooth muscle cell growth, 
         -  decreased macrophage migration, and
         -  possibly possess some antioxidant activities.
      *  They may also posssess some antithrombotic properties through inhibition of platelet aggregation and augmentation of the endogenous fibrinolytic system.

+  **Medical Therapy for Relief of Symptoms Recommendations**
   -  Class I
      *  \beta-blockers should be prescribed as initial therapy for relief of sysmptoms in patients with SIHD
      *  Calcium channel blockers or long-acting nitrates should be prescribed for relief of symptoms when \beta-blockers are contraindicated or cause unacceptable side effects in patients with SIHD
      *  Calcium channel blockers or long-acting nitrates, in combination with \beta-blockers, should be prescribed for relief of symptoms when initial treatment with \beta-blockers is unsuccessful in patients with SIHD
      *  Sublingual nitroglycerin or nitroglycerin spray is recommended for immediate relief of angina in patients with SIHD.
   -  Class IIa
      *  Treatment with a long-acting nondihydropyridine CCB (Verapamil or Diltiazem) instead of a \beta-blocker as initial therapy for relief or symptoms is reasonable in patients with SIHD.
      *  Ranolazine can be useful when prescribed as a substitute for \beta-blockers for relief of symptoms in patients with SIHD if initial treatment with \beta-blockers leads to unacceptable side effects or is ineffective or if initial treatment with \beta-blockers is contraindicated.
      *  Ranolazine in combination with \beta-blockers can be useful when prescribed for relief of symptoms when initial treatment with \beta-blockers is not successful in patients with SIHD.

+  **Non-Pharmacologic Therapy (Revascularization)**
   -  Surgical revacularization plays an important and growing role in the treatment of SIHD. Revascularization optins usually consist of coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) surgery or PCI with or without stent placement.
   -  Whereas most of the pharmacologic approaches reduce myocardial oxygen demand, revascularization increases myocardial oxygen supply in vessels with significant stenosis.

+  **Management of Variable Threshold Angina and Prinzmetal's Angina**
   -  While \beta-blockers are typically the agents of first choice in patients with fixed-threshold angina, they are not appropriate agents for patients with vasospasm. Although not all studies report increased painful episodes of angina with the addition of \beta-blockers in patients with vasospasm, they may induce coronary vasoconstriction and prolong ischemia.
   -  Both nitrates and CCBs, are effective agents for reducing vasospasm.
