### Acute Decompensated Heart Failure (ADHF)
>  The terms ADHF or exacerbation of heart failure refer to those patients with new or worsening signs or symptoms of HF (often as a result of volume overload and/or low cardiac output [CO]) requiring medical intervention such as an emergency department visit or hospitalization.

>  Patients presenting with ADHF may be categorized into one of 4 hemodynamic subsets based on volume status (euvolemic or "dry" vs volume overloaded or "wet") and CO (adequate CO or "warm" vs hypoperfusion or "cold"). The corresponding subsets are:

   +  warm and dry (subset I)
   +  warm and wet (subset II)
   +  cold and dry (subset III)
   +  cold and wet (subset IV)

>  The term *cardiogenic shock* may also be used to describe patients in subsets III and IV who present with low blood pressure and evidence of tissue hypoperfusion.

>  Plasma B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) and N-terminal pro-BNP concentrations are positively correlated with the degree of left ventricular dysfunction and HF and are now frequently used to assist in the differential diagnosis of dyspnea (HF vs asthma, COPD, or infection).

+  **Pharmacologic Management of Volume Overload**
   >Although IV loop diuretics are the mainstay of therapy for volume overload in ADHF, several additional therapies may be used in conjuction with loop diuretics in select patients. 
   *  **Diuretics**
      -  IV loop diuretics, including furosemide, bumetanide, and torsemide, are used commonly in the management of ADHF.
      -  Furosemide remains the most widely studied and used in this setting.
      -  Addition of thiazide type diuretic may be considered in patients with diuretic resistance.
   *  **Vasodilators**
      -  IV vasodilators may also be helpful in select patients with refractory volume overload.
      -  The most commonly used IV vasodilators in ADHF are sodium nitroprusside, nitroglycerin, and nesiritide, and each can be classified according to its most prominent site of action (ie, arterial or venous circulation).
      -  Venodilators act as preload reducers by increasing venous capacitance, thus reducing symptoms of pulmonary congestion in patients with high ventricular filling pressures.
      -  Arterial vasodilators act as impedence-reducing agents, thereby reducing afterload and causing a reflexive increase in CO, which may promote diuresis via improved renal perfusion.
      -  Mixed vasodilators act on both resistance and capacitance vessels, reducing congestive symptoms while increasing CO.
      -  **Nitroglycerin**
         +  IV nitroglycerin is often preferred for preload reduction in patients with ADHF, especially those with evidence of pulmonary congestion.
         +  Because of its short half life, IV nitroglycerin is administered by continuous infusion.
         +  Like sodium nitroprusside, nitroglycerin should not be used in the presence of elevated intracranial pressure because it may worsen cerebral edema in this setting.
      -  **Nesiritide**
         +  Nesiritide is a recombinant form of B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP), which is secreted by the myocardium in response to volume overload.
         +  Exogenous administration of nesiritide mimics the vasodilatory and natriuretic actions of BNP by stimulating natriuretic peptide receptor A, leading to increased concentrations of cGMP in target tissues.
         +  Nesiritide produces dose-dependent venous and arterial vasodilation; increases CO, natriuresis, and diuresis; decreases cardiac filling pressures; and impairs activation of the sympathetic nervous system and renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system.
         +  Due to its higher cost in comparison to other vasodilators and marginal improvements in clinical outcomes, Nesiritide has a limited role beyond the relief of congestive symptoms in patients with acute dyspnea.
   *  **Vasopressin Antagonists**
      -  Physiologic fluid balance depends on relative concentrations of sodium and water. HF is most commonly associated with hypervolemic hyponatremia.
      -  Hyponatremia is often characterized by inappropriately elevated concentrations of arginine vasopressin (AVP), or antidiuretic hormone.
      -  In HF, reduced CO leads to excess stimulation of arterial baroreceptors, which in trun enhances AVP secretion and consequently, net water retention.
      -  The two currently available vaospression receptor antagonists, *tolvaptan* and *conivaptan*, inhibit or two AVP receptors. *Conivaptan* is not indicated in patients with HF.
   *  **Inotropes**
      -  Resistance to diuretic therapy may also result from worsening renal pefusion due to low CO. As a consequence, IV inotropes or arterial vasodilators may improve diuresis by improving central hemodynamics.
      -  However, given the adverse effect profile of IV inotropes, therapy should generally be reserved for patients not responding to other modalities or those with clear evidence of low CO.
      -  Administration of low dose dopamine to enhance diuresis was once practice, but evidence to support its use remains controversial.

+  **Management of Low Cardiac Output**

   > Patients in subsets III and IV ("cold" subsets) require prompt correction of low CO in order to restore peripheral tissue perfusion and preserve end-organ function. The two most common pharmacologic strategies for improving CO in ADHF are the IV vasodilators and inotropes. Due to the risks associated with IV inotrope therapy, IV vasodilators are preferred although hypotension often precludes their use in many patients with advanced HF. Importantly, these agents rarely, if ever, produce a single cardiovacular action. Even when intended for a specific purpose (eg. positive inotropic effects), other cardiovascular effects (tachycardia, vasoconstriction) may either add to the therapeutic effect or cause adverse effects that negate or even outweigh the its intended therapeutic benefit. For this reason, hemodynamic monitoring with a PA catheter may be useful.
  
   *  **Vasodilators**
      -  **Sodium Nitroprusside**
         +  Sodium Nitroprusside is an effective strategy for short-term management of patients with severe HF across variety of settings (eg, acute MI, valvular regurgitation, postcoronary bypass surgery, and ADHF). Generally, sodium nitroprusside does not worsen, and may even improve, the balance between myocardial oxygen demand and supply by lowering both left ventricular wall tension (thus reducing oxygen demand) and end-diastolic pressure (thereby increasing subendocardial blood flow). However, an excessive decrease in systemic arterial pressure may reduce coronary perfusion and worsen ischemia due to coronary steal.
         +  Sodium Nitroprusside has a rapid onset of action but its effects last less than 10 minutes, necessitating administration by continuous IV infusion.
   *  **Inotropes**
      -  Although IV inotropes can improve peripheral hypoperfusion by directly enhancing cardiac contractility, their association with adverse outcomes necessitates that they be reserved for select patients with refractory ADHF.
      -  Current guidelines recommend that inotrope therapy be considered only as a temporizing measure for maintaining end-organ perfusion in patients with cardiogenic shock or evidence of severly depressed CO and low systolic blood pressure (ie, ineligible for IV vasodilators) until definitive therapy can be initiated, as a "bridge" for those with advanced HF who are eligible for MCS or cardiac transplantation, or for palliation of symptoms in patients with advanced HF who are not eligible for Mechanical Circulatory Support (MCS) or cardiac transplantation.
      -  The two IV inotropic agents most commonly used for the management of ADHF are dobutamine and milrinone. Although both drugs increase intracellular concentrations of cAMP, they do so by different mechanisms.
      -  **Dobutamine**
      -  **Milrinone**
   *  **Agents with Combined Inotropic and Vasopressor Activity**
      - Although therapies that can increase SVR are generally avoided in ADHF, agents with combined inotropic and vasopressor acitivity, such as *norepinephrine* or *dopamine*, may be required in select scenarios where marked systemic hypotension may preclude the use of traditional IV inotropes (eg, septic shock, refractory cardiogenic shock).
